API Network Guidelines (#1639)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: v6/postman_for_publishers/api_network/api_submission_guidelines.md

---
title: "API Network submission guidelines"
page_id: "api_network_submission_guidelines."
warning: false

---

### Why adhere to guidelines?

> Postman's API Network makes API consumption very easy. If you are building APIs that can be consumed by public, you can publish them to Postman's API network and users can directly “Run it in Postman”. To publish your APIs to Postman's API network ensure your APIs adhere to a set of guidelines outlined by Postman. 

Reviewer: This section doesn't actually say *why* it's good to have the guidelines, just that you have to follow them.

> Postman's API Network makes API consumption very easy. If you are building APIs that can be consumed by public, you can publish them to Postman's API network and users can directly “Run it in Postman”. To publish your APIs to Postman's API network, ensure your APIs adhere to a set of guidelines outlined by Postman. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think we ever official say "Run it in Postman", so we should refer to something like this in quotes. Either refer to "Run in Postman" or use run in Postman.

> ### API format guidelines

Reviewer: I think "guidelines" may be the wrong word here. What follows is a list of required elements. 
```suggestion
### API submission requirements
```

To ensure your APIs have a wider adoption, adhere to the following guidelines:

#### 1. Logo
   

>    All API Network submissions must contain a logo. Logo gives you a better identity and helps users easily associate the API with your company.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   All teams submitting to API Network must have an updated logo. Logo gives you a better identity and helps users easily associate the API with your company.
```

#### 2. API Name & Description

   An appropriate name and a proper description helps explain your API’s intended use. The following illustrates an example:

>    [![name and desc](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Name-Desc2.png)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Name-Desc2.png)

Reviewer 3: The image shows the collection name and description, not the API name and description.

Reviewer 3: @Raja-Simha Not sure how we want to distinguish between the two things.

#### 3. Authentication 

   All API Network submissions should clearly explain steps for authentication in detail. This helps your API users get started easily. 

   **Note:** If there are authorization tokens in the request headers replace them with a placeholder. This makes your documentation secure and readable. The following screen illustrates this:

   [![authentication](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Auth.png)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Auth.png)

#### 4. Formatting 

>    Make sure your documentation is properly formatted. Ensure you maintain a systematic folder structure with items organized in folders and sub-folders.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely certain what this means. How do we define "proper formatting"?

#### 5. Requests and Responses 

   Make sure the objective of your API requests is clearly documented. Ensure you document resource descriptions, endpoints and methods, and parameters clearly with examples. Specify request and response examples. The following screen illustrates an example of this:

   [![request-response](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Req-Resp.png)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/postman-static-getpostman-com/postman-docs/API-Network-Req-Resp.png)

> **Note:** Do not submit examples containing localhost paths because they don't make sense for APIs in the API network.

Reviewer: Why don't they make sense?

### Sample APIs for reference

##### Good API submissions:

- [Tradeprint](https://docs.sandbox.tradeprint.io/#06cc541c-cd0e-48dc-864a-3d32c6cf173f)
- [Skore](https://docs.m2m.skore.io/)
- [TelemetryTV](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/6190915/RznHHxCP)
- [Imgur](https://apidocs.imgur.com)

### The submission process

The submission process is quite simple. Adhere to the following 3-step process:

> 1. Decide your list of APIs to be published to the Postman's API network.

Reviewer 3: The "list" bit is ambiguous. It sounds like you must publish multiple APIs.

Reviewer 3: In reality, you publish only one collection at a time.

2. Adhere to the API format guidelines.
3. Submit them to the Postman API network.

> The moderators at the Postman API network will review your APIs and approve them for publication to the API network.

Reviewer 2: ...review your APIs, may request additional changes, and then approve them for...
